Aus Visa
Applying for a student visa

​Get your Student visa application right the first time. Avoid making common mistakes that will delay your visa application or lead to a visa refusal.

If your visa application has all the information and documents we need, you will get a faster outcome – so make sure you check it twice before submitting.

Tips for submitting a ‘decision ready’ application
Check that your name is spelt correctly and matches your passport. Watch out for auto correct. If you only have one name, rather than a first name and a family name, complete the family name field only.
Provide all names you have been known by. For more information about documents that prove a name change see the ‘step by step’ tab.
Provide your correct date of birth in dd/mm/yyyy format.
Find out which documents you need to give us using the Document Checklist tool.
Check what evidence to give us to show you are a genuine student on the Genuine Student requirement page.
Upload a current Confirmation of Enrolment (COE) to your ImmiAccount.
If the Document Checklist tool says you need to give us evidence of your English ability, make sure you include it when you apply.
Provide English translations of all non-English supporting documents. Include the translator’s NAATI practitioner number if they are in Australia, or their full name, address, phone number and qualifications in the language they are translating if they are outside of Australia.
Make sure you agree to receive electronic communication from us when you apply for your visa through ImmiAccount. This is the best way to stay updated about your application. It will help you get a faster visa decision.
Respond quickly to requests for more information. If you cannot give us the information we have asked for, let us know and explain why. If you need to contact us, use the contact details included in the correspondence we have sent to you in ImmiAccount.
Student Guardian visa
For more information on the steps you need to take to apply for a Student Guardian visa, see Subclass 590 Student Guardian visa - Step by step.

If you are applying for a visa to accompany and care for a student under 18 years old, you will need to prove that you have enough money to support both of you. You will need to attach a document such as a current bank statement to ImmiAccount.

Submit additional information if you are under 18
If you are applying for a student visa and you are under 18 years of age, you will need to give us some more information and documents. For more information, visit Welfare and custody arrangements for students under 18 and find the document checklist.

ImmiAccount – your gateway to an Australian visa
You will need an ImmiAccount to apply for a Student visa. When setting up your ImmiAccount, make sure that you choose to receive messages from us. This will include updates about your application. Check your ImmiAccount regularly for updates and requests for more information.

Your ImmiAccount is the place to:

track the progress of your application and see requests for more information
add more information or documents to your application
update your contact details.
If you need help with your visa application
If you need help with your visa application you can:

use a registered migration agent, a practising lawyer or someone else who can help you with your application
find an office outside Australia for information that is specific to your location.
Visa processing times
We encourage you to apply for your visa well before your course commencement date.

For an indication of Student visa processing times, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.


-//-                            Documentary Evidence List                   -//-

Evidence of your identity​
Attach a copy of your passport. Also include a certified copy of your birth certificate, national identity card or driver licence where you have these.

Evidence of intended study
Evidence of your intended study must be provided to make a valid application. Unless you are in a special category listed below, you must provide a Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) for all intended courses when you apply.

Special categories
Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade sponsored – provide a letter of support
Australian Department of Defence sponsored – provide a letter of support
a secondary exchange student – provide an Acceptance Advice of Secondary Exchange Student form
postgraduate research student required to remain in Australia for marking of your thesis – provide a letter from your education provider.
Welfare arrangements for under 18 year old student
Evidence of accommodation and welfare arrangements in Australia if you are under 18 years of age must be provided to make a valid application.

This must be one of the following:

Form 157N - Nomination of a student guardian in Australia
confirmation of appropriate accommodation and welfare letter from the student’s education provider
an acceptance advice of secondary exchange studentform for secondary exchange students only
letter of Support from the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade or the Australian Department of Defence stating that arrangements have been made for the student’s welfare.
Parental consent
If you have a child under the age of 18 included in the visa application and one or both parents (or legal guardians) are not applying for an Australian visa, both parents will need to complete and sign the Form 1229 - Consent form to grant an Australian visa to a child under the age of 18 years.

If you have sole custody of the child/ren, provide evidence such as a court order.
Health insurance
Evidence of adequate health insurance. Health insurance must be Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC).

You must obtain OSHC for yourself and any accompanying dependants from at least one week before your course starts and for the duration of your stay in Australia.

If you or your agent have organised OSHC, you will need to include the name of your health insurance provider, the dates your policy starts and finishes and the policy number in your application form.

If your education provider arranged your OSHC, you will need to include the name of your health insurance provider and the dates your policy starts and finishes. You do not need to include the policy number in your application.

Note: If you are from Norway, Sweden or Belgium, you might not have to obtain OSHC. Check the PrivateHealth.gov.au website for more information.

Evidence of financial capacity
You must provide evidence that you have enough funds to cover your:

travel costs
12 months of living
tuition fees for you and your accompanying family members
school costs for any school aged dependants.
Alternatively, you can provide evidence that your spouse or parents are willing to support you and they have a certain minimum annual income.

Details on the amount of funds or minimum annual income figures to show that you meet the financial capacity requirement, see the details on 'Step by Step' gather your documents.

Secondary Exchange Students only need to provide an Acceptance Advice of Secondary Exchange Students form.

Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade or Department of Defence Students must provide a letter of support.

Evidence of English language ability

You must provide evidence that you have either obtained a minimum test score in an English language test that has been approved by us or if you fall into an exemption category.

For more information on English language tests, see the details on ‘Eligibility’ Meet English Language requirements-English Language tests.

English language evidence exemptions

You do not need to give us evidence of an English test score with your visa application if one of the following applies:

you are a citizen and hold a passport from UK, USA, Canada, NZ or Republic of Ireland
you are an applicant who is a Foreign Affairs or Defence sponsored student, or a Secondary Exchange student (AASES)
you are enrolled in a principal course of study that is a registered school course
you are enrolled in a principal course of study that is a standalone English Language Intensive Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS)
you are enrolled in a principal course of study registered and delivered in a language other than English
you are enrolled in a registered post-graduate research course
you have completed at least 5 years’ study in English in Australia, UK, USA, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, or the Republic of Ireland
in the 2 years before applying for the Student visa you completed the Senior Secondary Certificate of Education in Australia in English while you held a Student visa
in the 2 years before applying for the Student visa you completed a substantial component of a course that would qualify you under the Australian Qualifications Framework at the Certificate IV or higher level, while you held a Student visa.
Note: We may need you to give us evidence of an English test score with your visa application if you hold a British National Overseas (BNO) passport.

If you are required to provide evidence of English language proficiency but you fall into an exemption category, make sure you provide the appropriate evidence that demonstrates that you satisfy one of the exemptions.

For more information on English Language Tests and Evidence Exemptions refer to the Migration (English Language Tests and Evidence Exemptions for Subclass 500 (Student) Visas) Instrument 2025 - Federal Register of Legislation.


Genuine Student requirement
Student visa applications lodged on or after 23 March 2024 are assessed under the new Genuine Student (GS) requirement.

You must show that you meet the Genuine Student requirement for a student visa. This includes answering a set of new questions in the online student visa application form, shown below:

Details of your current circumstances, including ties to family, community, employment and economic circumstances. 
Explain the reason you wish to study this course in Australia with this particular education provider and your understanding of the requirements of the intended course and studying and living in Australia.
Explain how completing the course will be of benefit to you.
Details of any other relevant information you would like to include.
Answers must be written in English, with a maximum of 150 words per question.

There is an additional question for those applicants who have previously held a student visa or those who are lodging an application in Australia from a non-student visa.

Along with the responses included in the application form, you must attach supporting documents to your ImmiAccount.

This can include:

Qualifications - a certified copy of your academic transcripts, Educational Certificate (Degree, Diploma etc.) or letter/statement from your overseas Education Institution.
Australian qualifications - a certified copy of your academic transcripts, Educational Certificate (Degree, Diploma etc.) or letter/statement from your Australian Education Institution.
Proof of employment – your current or most recent employment which includes payslips or a contract. You can also attach your most recent curriculum vitae or résumé. Your curriculum vitae or résumé should include employment and educational history.
In line with Ministerial Direction 106, we will consider:

your circumstances in your home country
your potential circumstances in Australia
the value of the course to your future
your immigration history
any other relevant matter.
If you are a minor, we will also consider the intentions of a parent, legal guardian or spouse.

Change of name
If anyone in the application has changed his or her name, certified copies of documents verifying the name change. This includes a marriage or deed poll certificate or a certified copy of evidence of the name change.

Relationship - spouse, de facto partner
Evidence of your relationship with your spouse/de facto partner. This includes a certified copy of your marriage certificate, Family Book, Household Booklet or other evidence of family composition.

Employment history
Evidence of your employment history can include payslips or a contract if you are currently or recently employed. You can also attach your most recent curriculum vitae or résumé outlining both employment and study for the past five years.

If you have been studying you can include copies of your transcripts.

Note: You do not need to provide this if you are sponsored by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade or the Department of Defence or if you are a secondary exchange student.

Migration agent - Form 956 Advice by a migration agent/exempt person
Provide a completed and signed Form 956 - Advice by a migration agent/exempt person of providing immigration assistance.

Make sure you tick yes to having an authorised recipient and complete the required contact information in the application form if you attach this document. Only attach Form 956 if it is in the list of required documents at the end of the application form.

Appointment or withdrawal of an authorised recipient - Form 956A
Provide a completed and signed Form 956A - Appointment or withdrawal of an authorised recipient.

Make sure you tick yes to having an authorised recipient and complete the required contact information in the application form if you attach this document. Only attach Form 956A if it is in the list of required documents at the end of the application form.

Evidence of school enrolment for dependants
Evidence of enrolment of an accompanying dependent child 5 to 18 years of age at an Australian school. If any family unit members are 5 to 17 years of age (inclusive) and will live with the applicant in Australia, documentation confirming their enrolment in an Australian school.

Research Students
If you are undertaking research in Australia, attach a copy of your research (thesis/project) topic and your curriculum vitae or résumé.

​​​Before you use this tool please read the disclaimer.

When you submit your application in ImmiAccount, you will also be provided with a list of documents you should attach.​



Country of passport
Select a country


Education provider
Select a provider
or
Education provider CRICOS code
Select a CRICOS code


I am one of the following...
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) sponsored student
Department of Defence sponsored student
Secondary exchange student
Requesting a further visa for PhD thesis marking
none of the above (all other students)




-//-                            Genuine Student requirement             -//-
​​​​The Genuine Student (GS) requirement applies to student visa applications lodged on or after 23 March 2024. We will assess applications lodged before this date under the Genuine Temporary Entrant (GTE) requirement.




All applicants for a student visa must:

be a genuine applicant for entry and stay as a student
be able to demonstrate an understanding that studying in Australia is the primary reason for applying for a student visa. 
The GS requirement recognises that genuine students may develop skills Australia needs and may later choose to apply for permanent residence. Future intentions of this kind do not count against an applicant under GS.

To be granted a student visa, all applicants must demonstrate that they satisfy the GS criterion or the GS dependent criterion.

The online student visa application form asks the following to address the GS criteria.

Give details of the applicant’s current circumstances. This includes ties to family, community, employment and economic circumstances. 
Explain why the applicant wishes to study this course in Australia with this particular education provider. This must also explain their understanding of the requirements of the intended course and studying and living in Australia.
Explain how completing the course will be of benefit to the applicant.
Give details of any other relevant information the applicant would like to include.
There is another question for applicants who have held a student visa or those applying in Australia from a non-student visa.
We prefer applicants to respond to the above questions in the application form rather than attaching a separate GS statement.

There is a text limit of 150 words per response. 

All responses must be in English.

Along with the responses included in the application form, the applicant must attach supporting documents to their ImmiAccount.

We give more weight to statements supported by evidence in assessing the GS requirement.

We consider overall personal circumstances of the applicant to assess the genuine student requirement.

What evidence and information to include
We encourage applicants to give evidence or information about:

Previous study
This includes:

academic transcripts showing qualifications achieved
name of the education provider(s)
length of study
certificates of attainment.
Previous study in Australia
This includes:

a complete history of study record(s) in Australia
reasons for change of course and/or education providers
details of information on course progress
study gaps of more than 2 months during an academic year
any other information the applicant considers relevant to their study record in Australia.
Current employment
This includes:

details of their current employer and company address
period of employment
details of position held
the name and contact details of someone who can confirm the circumstances of the declared employment.
Circumstances in their home country or country of residence
This includes:

the nature of the applicant’s personal ties e.g. family, community and employment. They must give reasons for not studying in their home country if a similar course is available.
Economic circumstances in home country or country of residence
This includes:

documents showing employment or business activities for 12 months before lodging an application
potential employment offers including salary and other benefits, after course completion
income tax return or bank statements.
If there is political and civil unrest and military service commitments in the applicant’s home country that would present as a significant incentive for them to leave their home country, they must give reasons and supporting evidence.

How we assess GS
The GS criterion focuses on the assessment of the student’s intention to genuinely study in Australia. It considers factors including the applicant’s:

circumstances
immigration history
compliance with visa conditions and any other relevant matters.
This criterion acknowledges that post-study pathways are available for those who may be eligible.

Situations in their home country (or country of residence)
We consider:

reasons for not studying in their home country or region if a similar course is available there
the nature of the applicant’s personal ties to their home country
economic circumstances
military service commitments political and civil unrest in their home country.
Potential situation in Australia
We consider:

the level of knowledge of the proposed course, education provider and living in Australia
previous study and qualifications
the level of research the applicant has undertaken into their proposed course of study and living arrangements.
Value of the course to their future
We consider:

if the course is consistent with their current level of education and if it will assist them to obtain employment or improve employment prospects in their home country or another country
if the course is relevant to past or proposed future employment in their home country or another country
expected salary and other benefits in their home country or another country obtained with the qualifications from the proposed course of study.
Immigration history
We consider:

visa and travel history for Australia and other countries
previous visa applications for Australia or other countries
visa refusals or cancellations.
If the applicant is a minor, we consider the intentions of the parent, legal guardian or spouse.

Any other relevant matter
Give details of any other relevant information the applicant would like to include in their application.

For more information, refer to Ministerial Direction No. 106 (348KB PDF).​




-//- Getting Your Student 500 Visa -//-                                                                                     
Stay
Up to 6 years and in line with your enrolment.

Cost
From AUD2,500.00 (concessions apply in limited circumstances).

Cost concession
A lower visa cost applies to eligible Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizens, eligible ASEAN citizens and applicants in the ELICOS and Non-Award sector who lodge a valid Student visa application. See About this visa.

To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.


Processing times
For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.

Student visa applications lodged outside Australia are processed in accordance with a Ministerial Direction. Applications lodged before 14 November 2025 are processed according to Ministerial Direction 111 (10MB PDF), and applications lodged on or after 14 November 2025 are processed according to Ministerial Direction 115 (851KB PDF). For more information about visa processing times for applications lodged by students outside Australia, visit Student visa processing priorities.

Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster.

With this visa you can
participate in an eligible course of study in Australia
travel in and out of Australia
work up to 48 hours a fortnight when your course of study or training is in session.

See all conditions

Check your eligibility

You must
apply online in or outside Australia
be enrolled in a course of study in Australia and hold a valid Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) when we decide your visa
hold Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC), or fall in one of the exemption categories
be 6 years or older
prove you have a welfare arrangement, if you are under 18
If in Australia hold an eligible substantive visa. See, ‘Have this Visa if applying while in Australia” in Eligibility Tab.
Note:

A CoE is no longer valid if it is cancelled or the course is complete
A substantive visa ceases to be in effect if another substantive visa is granted
Applications are received Australian Eastern Standard Time (AEST) (or Australian Eastern daylight standard time (AEDST) when applicable)
Help with your visa
If you are getting help with your visa, before you pay someone, read information on Who can help with your visa application.






-//-                                     Applying for a Student 500 Visa                    -//-
​Get your Student visa application right the first time. Avoid making common mistakes that will delay your visa application or lead to a visa refusal.

If your visa application has all the information and documents we need, you will get a faster outcome – so make sure you check it twice before submitting.

Tips for submitting a ‘decision ready’ application
Check that your name is spelt correctly and matches your passport. Watch out for auto correct. If you only have one name, rather than a first name and a family name, complete the family name field only.
Provide all names you have been known by. For more information about documents that prove a name change see the ‘step by step’ tab.
Provide your correct date of birth in dd/mm/yyyy format.
Find out which documents you need to give us using the Document Checklist tool.
Check what evidence to give us to show you are a genuine student on the Genuine Student requirement page.
Upload a current Confirmation of Enrolment (COE) to your ImmiAccount.
If the Document Checklist tool says you need to give us evidence of your English ability, make sure you include it when you apply.
Provide English translations of all non-English supporting documents. Include the translator’s NAATI practitioner number if they are in Australia, or their full name, address, phone number and qualifications in the language they are translating if they are outside of Australia.
Make sure you agree to receive electronic communication from us when you apply for your visa through ImmiAccount. This is the best way to stay updated about your application. It will help you get a faster visa decision.
Respond quickly to requests for more information. If you cannot give us the information we have asked for, let us know and explain why. If you need to contact us, use the contact details included in the correspondence we have sent to you in ImmiAccount.
Student Guardian visa
For more information on the steps you need to take to apply for a Student Guardian visa, see Subclass 590 Student Guardian visa - Step by step.

If you are applying for a visa to accompany and care for a student under 18 years old, you will need to prove that you have enough money to support both of you. You will need to attach a document such as a current bank statement to ImmiAccount.

Submit additional information if you are under 18
If you are applying for a student visa and you are under 18 years of age, you will need to give us some more information and documents. For more information, visit Welfare and custody arrangements for students under 18 and find the document checklist.

ImmiAccount – your gateway to an Australian visa
You will need an ImmiAccount to apply for a Student visa. When setting up your ImmiAccount, make sure that you choose to receive messages from us. This will include updates about your application. Check your ImmiAccount regularly for updates and requests for more information.

Your ImmiAccount is the place to:

track the progress of your application and see requests for more information
add more information or documents to your application
update your contact details.
If you need help with your visa application
If you need help with your visa application you can:

use a registered migration agent, a practising lawyer or someone else who can help you with your application
find an office outside Australia for information that is specific to your location.
Visa processing times
We encourage you to apply for your visa well before your course commencement date.

For an indication of Student visa processing times, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.




-//-             About this visa            -//-


With this visa you can
participate in an eligible course of study in Australia
travel in and out of Australia
work up to 48 hours a fortnight when your course of study or training is in session (students studying a masters by research or doctoral degree, and their families, have no work limit).
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa to study up to 6 years. The type of course and its length will determine the length of stay

Primary school children starting their enrolment in years 1-4 will generally only be granted a Student visa for a maximum period of 3 years.  

Stay longer
To continue studying in Australia, you must apply for a new Student visa.

If your Student visa will expire before your graduation you might be eligible for a Visitor visa (subclass 600). You will need a letter from your education provider with the date of your graduation.

If you hold or held a Student visa and completed specific qualifications in Australia in the last six months, you might be eligible for a Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485).

If you want to stay longer for other reasons, you must apply for a new visa that suits your circumstances. Explore your visa options.

Cost
The visa costs from AUD2,500.00 for the main applicant (concessions apply in limited circumstances).

There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa.

You might also have to pay other costs for:

health checks
police certificates
biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.

Cost concession
A lower visa cost applies to eligible Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizens and eligible ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) citizens who lodge a valid Student visa application.

We will charge eligible applicants the lower visa application cost during the application process in ImmiAccount. We will recognise eligible applicants by the valid passport from the specified countries used in the application when they apply.

Family members are also eligible for the lower visa cost. We base this on the passport of the primary applicant (or visa holder who satisfies the primary visa criteria).

Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizen primary applicants must hold a valid passport issued by one of the following countries:

Federated States of Micronesia
Fiji
Kiribati
Nauru
Palau
Papua New Guinea
Republic of the Marshall Islands
Samoa
Solomon Islands
Timor-Leste
Tonga
Tuvalu
Vanuatu
ASEAN citizens primary applicants must hold a valid passport issued by one of the following countries:

Brunei Darussalam
Cambodia
Indonesia
Lao Peoples Dem Republic
Malaysia
Myanmar
Philippines
Singapore
Thailand
Timor-Leste (note that the applicable cost for Timor-Leste citizens will be applied according to the cost for Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizens rather than ASEAN citizens)
Vietnam
A lower visa cost also applies to valid Student visa applications in the Independent ELICOS and Non-Awards Sector.

Students affected by COVID-19
If you held a Student visa on or after 1 February 2020, you may be eligible to have your visa application fee waived so you can submit a further Student visa application. You may be eligible if you:

have deferred your study as you were unable to enter Australia due to travel restrictions
were forced to reduce to a part-time study load
were unable to complete your work-based training or placements.
This measure does not apply to students who are lodging a new Student visa application because of ordinary reasons, including if you have:

failed a course or unit of study
deferred for personal reasons
voluntarily reduced your study load.
You must apply for a Student visa to have your application for a fee waiver considered. Attach a completed Form 1545 COVID-19 Impacted Student (229KB PDF) from your education provider.

If you are applying for a fee waiver in Australia, we will not issue a Bridging visa automatically as the fee exemption must be checked first. You do not need to contact the department if you have applied for a fee waiver in Australia and have not been issued a Bridging visa immediately.

This waiver only applies to the visa application charge.

Include family
You can include family members when you lodge your visa application. For Student visas, your family member is:

your partner, or
your or your partner's dependent child who is unmarried and has not turned 18 years of age.
We cannot grant a Student visa to your child if they have turned 18 years at the time your visa is finalised. They need to apply for their own visa.

You must declare your family members in your Student visa application even if they do not plan to travel with you to Australia. If you do not do this, your family members will not be eligible for a Student visa to join you in Australia.

Your family members can also apply as a subsequent entrant (at a later time, separate from your application) in ImmiAccount.

Family members who apply for the visa must meet our requirements for health and character.

Check the annual school costs you will need to pay for any dependent children to go to either public or private schools in Australia.

For more information see ‘Evidence you have enough money for your stay’ section under Gather documents.

Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application. If you are in Australia you must hold an eligible substantive visa. For more information see ‘Have this visa if applying while in Australia’ under Eligibility.

Packaged courses
You will need to give us Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) for each course. The last course you take as part of the course package is your main course of study. We use your main course of study to work out what financial and English language skills evidence you must give us.

If your visa application includes a package of courses, course gaps must be less than two calendar months, unless the first course finishes at the end of the standard academic year and the next course commences at the beginning of the standard academic year.

For example, the academic year generally ends in November and starts again in February the following year, three to four months is an acceptable gap between courses. 

Standard visa grant periods apply to packaged courses.

Processing times
Make sure you allow plenty of time to prepare your application. Applications can take longer to process during peak periods, so lodge well in advance of your course start date.

Your application can take longer to process if:

you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster.

We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will tell you if this applies to you.

For more information about student visa processing times, see Student visa processing priorities.

Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.

See which conditions will and might be attached to this visa.

Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.

The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.

Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.



-//-            Eligibility -           -//- 


Be a certain age (school student)
If you are a school student (but not participating in a secondary school student exchange program), you must be aged 6 or older to apply for this visa.

You must also be:

less than 17 years old when you begin Year 9
less than 18 years old when you begin Year 10
less than 19 years old when you begin Year 11 
less than 20 years old when you begin Year 12 
Be enrolled in a course of study and provide evidence
You must include the right evidence of enrolment in study with your Student visa application, or your application will not be valid and can't be processed.

Providing a Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE)
You must be enrolled in a full time course registered on the Commonwealth Register of Institutions and courses for Overseas Students (CRICOS).

You must provide a Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) for all intended courses when you apply.

If you do not provide a CoE at time of lodgement, the student visa application will be invalid.

Your CoE must be valid when we decide your application. A CoE is no longer valid if it is cancelled or the course is complete. If you finish your course, but still require a student visa, you will need to attach a new CoE to your ImmiAccount. You must maintain enrolment in a course of study to be eligible for a student visa.

Packaged courses and CoEs
If you are applying for more than one (1) course in your Student visa application, you must include all CoE codes in the application form, as your visa period may only consider the duration of the course according to the CoE provided.

You can apply to include two (2) or more courses on your Student visa where one course clearly leads to the next.  Course gaps must be less than two calendar months, unless the first course finishes at the end of the standard academic year and the next course commences at the beginning of the standard academic year.

If you want your Student visa to cover more than one (1) course you must include all CoE codes in your visa application form, or your visa may only cover the CoE provided.

Other evidence of enrolment 
You do not need to provide a Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) if you are: 

enrolled in a full-time course of study or training under a scholarship scheme approved by the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: provide a letter of support
sponsored by the Australian Department of Defence: provide a letter of support
a secondary exchange student: provide an Acceptance Advice of Secondary Exchange Student (AASES) form
a postgraduate research student who needs to stay in Australia while your thesis is marked: provide a letter from your education provider
Make Welfare arrangements if you are under 18 years
If you are applying for a Student visa and you are under 18 years of age, you must have adequate welfare arrangements in place while you are in Australia.

If you will be 18 years of age when you arrive in Australia, you must tell us as you might not need to provide some of this information.

To learn more, see Welfare arrangements for students under 18.

Meet English language requirements
You might need to provide evidence of your English language skills at the time you submit your visa application. To find out the evidence you need to provide, use the Document Checklist tool.

Note: We can ask you for evidence of your English language skills after you have submitted your application, at any time while we are processing your application, even if the Document Checklist tool shows that you don't need to provide evidence of your English language skill when you submit your application. 

If you need to provide evidence of your English language skills, you must provide evidence that you:

have obtained a certain test score in an English language test that the Department has approved, or
fall into an exemption category listed below.
For more information on the minimum overall band scores you must achieve to meet the Student visa English language requirements, go to Gather Documents in the 'Step by Step'.

 

English language tests
You must have completed the English language test:

within the 2 years before you lodged your visa application, if you are Regular Evidence level; or
within the 2 years before a decision is made on your visa application, if you are Streamlined Evidence level and the Department has requested evidence.
At-home or online English language tests
The Department of Home Affairs does not accept evidence from English language tests where an entire test is delivered online (also known as “remote-proctored” or “at-home”).

Examples of online tests that are not approved for Australian visa purposes, include:

IELTS Online
LANGUAGECERT Academic Online
OET@Home
CELPIP Online
MET Digital (taken at-home)
TOEFL iBT – Home Edition.
TOEFL iBT
From 21 January 2026, applicants must select 'Taking TOEFL for Australia’ during registration to ensure the test is valid for Australian visa purposes.

We will not accept TOEFL iBT tests completed between 26 July 2023, and 4 May 2024 for Australian visa and migration purposes. During this period, the TOEFL iBT test being offered was not an approved test.

Cambridge C1 Advanced test (previously known as Cambridge English: Advanced CAE)
From 12 February 2024 to 6 August 2025, the department will only accept results from the Cambridge C1 Advanced paper-based test.

The department will still accept tests taken before 12 February 2024 and within specified validity periods, for C1 Advanced paper-based and computer-based tests.

LANGUAGECERT Academic
If you sit a LANGUAGECERT test, you will receive a ‘certificate’ and a ‘report’. If you use your LANGUAGECERT Academic results to show you meet the English language requirement, you must include both documents with your visa application. If you do not provide the certificate and the report, visa processing may be delayed.

English language evidence exemptions
You do not need to give us evidence of an English test score with your visa application if one of the following applies:

you are a citizen and hold a passport from UK, USA, Canada, NZ or Republic of Ireland 
you are an applicant who is a Foreign Affairs or Defence sponsored student, or a Secondary Exchange student (AASES)
you are enrolled in a principal course of study that is a registered school course
you are enrolled in a principal course of study that is a standalone English Language Intensive Course for Overseas Students (ELICOS)
you are enrolled in a principal course of study registered and delivered in a language other than English
you are enrolled in a registered post-graduate research course
you have completed at least 5 years’ study in English in Australia, UK, USA, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, or the Republic of Ireland
in the 2 years before applying for the Student visa you completed the Senior Secondary Certificate of Education in Australia in English while you held a Student visa
in the 2 years before applying for the Student visa you completed a substantial component of a course that would qualify you under the Australian Qualifications Framework at the Certificate IV or higher level, while you held a Student visa.
Note: We may need you to give us evidence of an English test score with your visa application if you hold a British National Overseas (BNO) passport.

If you are required to provide evidence of English language proficiency but you fall into an exemption category, make sure you provide the appropriate evidence that demonstrates that you satisfy one of the exemptions.

For more information on English Language Tests and Evidence Exemptions refer to the Migration (English Language Tests and Evidence Exemptions for Subclass 500 (Student) Visas) Instrument 2025 - Federal Register of Legislation.

Have adequate health insurance
You and your family members must have and maintain adequate health insurance for the whole of your stay in Australia. To find out the length of coverage you will require, see Student visa grant periods.

You and your family members must be covered by Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC) from an approved Australian health insurance provider, unless an 'Exception' applies.

Applicants outside Australia
Your cover must start from the day you and your family arrive in Australia, not the day your course starts.

If you have been granted a visa and want to travel to Australia before your course begins, the OSHC start date must be the same as the date you arrive, not the date your course starts. Generally this is a minimum of 1 week to 1 month before your course starts. 

You must: 

ensure you don't enter Australia before your OSHC begins, and
maintain your OSHC until you leave Australia.
You may be refused entry to Australia if you cannot prove you have health insurance in place when you arrive.

Applicants in Australia
Applicants must have OSHC. If your previous visa required you to have health insurance, cover must be continuous with  no gap between your previous health cover and your OSHC.

Exceptions
You do not need to have OSHC if you are:

a Norwegian student covered by the Norwegian National Insurance Scheme
a Swedish student covered by Kammarkollegiet
a Belgian student covered under the Reciprocal Health Care Agreement with Australia
How to get Overseas Student Health Cover
To get OSHC:

find an approved provider
pay for your policy
Your education provider or agent might arrange OSHC for you. 

If your education provider arranges your OSHC coverage, you will need to know the name of your health insurance provider, the date that your policy starts and finishes and should be aware of the terms and conditions of your policy. Your education provider will also need to include your health insurance information on your Certificate of Enrolment (CoE).

If you arrange OSHC coverage yourself, you will need to know the policy number to include in the visa application.

We will refuse your visa application if you don't give us this information when you apply for your Student visa. 

Insurance for family members
If you have a single OSHC policy and you have family members, including children born in Australia after your arrival, consider getting a family policy. Every member of your family must have health insurance. 

Any family member who joins you after you arrive in Australia must show us they have OSHC for the duration of their stay in Australia.

Have this visa if applying while in Australia
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa. 

You can apply in Australia if you hold a substantive visa except for one of these:

Temporary Work (International Relations) visa (subclass 403) in the Domestic Worker (Diplomatic or consular) stream
Domestic Worker (Temporary) Diplomatic and Consular visa (subclass 426)
Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485)
Visitor visa (subclass 600)
Electronic Travel Authority visa (subclass 601) (ETA)
Medical Treatment visa (subclass 602)
eVisitor visa (subclass 651)
Transit visa (subclass 771)
Maritime Crew visa (subclass 988)
Diplomatic (Temporary) visa (subclass 995) – primary visa holder only. A family member of a Diplomatic (Temporary) visa (subclass 995) can apply for a Student visa in Australia
If you don’t hold an eligible substantive visa you can apply in 28 days of either:

holding a Student visa, a special purpose visa, or a dependent Diplomatic (temporary) visa
being notified by the Tribunal that your visa cancellation has been set aside.
Note: You cannot make a valid application for a Student visa if you do not hold a substantive visa and you have previously been granted a visa based on an application made when you did not hold a substantive visa.

Have enough money for your stay
You must have enough money to pay for your stay in Australia. To see the minimum amount of money you need for your visa application go to 'Gather Documents' under Step by Step.

The living costs we ask you to declare and provide with your visa application is the minimum amount of money you need for the visa. Actual living costs vary throughout Australia. They may be much higher than what you need for the visa. We recommend you research the area you intend to live including the cost of living in that area.

You should not rely on work to support yourself or your family while in Australia. The Australian Government Study Australia website provides useful information on accommodation options. It features a cost of living calculator to help you consider other possible costs in addition to the amount required for your visa application.


For more information visit Study Australia.

Be a genuine student
You must:

be a genuine student for entry
be able to show an understanding that studying in Australia is the primary reason of your Student visa.
For more information, see Genuine Student requirement.

Meet our character requirement
You and family members aged 16 years and over who apply for the visa must meet our character requirement.

Meet our health requirement
You and any family members who apply for the visa must meet our health requirement.

Sign the Australian values statement
If you are 18 years of age or older, you must:

have read, or had explained to you, the Life in Australia booklet and
sign an Australian Values Statement that confirms you will respect the Australian way of life and obey Australian laws
Have paid back your debt to the Australian Government
If you or any family members (including those who don't apply for the visa with you) owe the Australian government money, you or they must have paid it back or arranged to pay it back.

Not had a visa cancelled or an application refused
We will consider your immigration history when we decide on your application, which means you might not be eligible for this visa if you have had a visa cancelled or refused.

If applying for a visa from outside Australia see Can I go to Australia.

If you want immigration assistance, see Who can help with your visa application.

Best interests of the child
We might not grant this visa if it is not in the best interests of an applicant under 18.



-//-                    Visa process            -//-



Step 1

Before you apply
Outside Australia - Apply for your visa with enough time before your course starts. For an indication of processing times for this visa, use the visa processing time guide tool. This will show the processing times for recently decided applications. It is a guide only and not specific to your application.

In Australia - Allow plenty of time to apply for your next visa. Avoid waiting until the last day your current substantive visa expires in case of unexpected complications, as we may not always be able to help you.

Step 2

Gather your documents
To see what you need to give us, use the Document Checklist Tool. Before you use this tool please read the disclaimer. 

Enter your country of passport and education provider to get an accurate document checklist. Choose the option 'I have not decided on a provider yet' in the tool if you have not yet chosen a provider.

The tool will tell you what evidence you need to provide. If the tool says you need to give us evidence of a certain thing (eg. English capability), select 'Show steps' to see what kind of evidence we might accept.

Re-check the document checklist based on the country of passport and education provider just before you submit your application to be sure you have used the most current list, and to ensure that you have provided all documents that we need to assess your application.

The Document Checklist Tool is routinely updated twice a year on 31 March and 30 September, but was also updated on 20 November 2024.

Step 3

Apply for the visa
You must apply for this visa online. You can be in or outside Australia when you apply.

You should submit a complete and decision-ready application. Applications that are lodged without relevant documentation may be refused or delayed. The application form in ImmiAccount tells you what documents to attach.

Step 4

After you apply
See what you can and must do after you apply.

You should respond to any requests for information promptly. You do not need to wait until the deadline to respond to a Departmental request for further information.  You should also regularly log into your ImmiAccounts to check for messages from the Department and respond promptly.

You should avoid booking travel before your visa has been finalised. 

Step 5

Visa outcome
We will let you know in writing our decision about your visa application. We will tell you:

your visa grant number
the date your visa expires
your visa conditions
Keep a copy of the decision with you when in Australia.

If we refuse your visa we will let you know in writing. We will tell you why we refused and whether you have a right to a review of the decision.

We will not refund the application charge if we refuse your application.

-//-            CRITICAL MISSING INFORMATION (APPENDED)           -//-

Simplified Student Visa Framework (SSVF) & Evidentiary Tool
Australia uses a Combined Country and Education Provider Risk Matrix to determine the documentation level required for your visa application. Under SSVF, applicants are categorized into two streams:
- Streamlined (Document-Free) Pathway: If your country of passport and your chosen education provider are both assessed as low risk (Category 1), you are generally not required to provide evidence of financial capacity or English language proficiency with your application. However, the Department of Home Affairs reserves the right to ask for this evidence during processing.
- Regular (Standard) Pathway: If either your passport country or your education provider is assessed as high risk (Category 2 or 3), you MUST submit full documentary evidence of financial capacity and English language scores upfront with your visa application. Failure to do so will result in an immediate visa refusal without any request for more info.
- Safe Rule: Even if you fall under the streamlined pathway, it is highly recommended to have your financial capacity documents and English test scores ready, as you may be randomly selected to present them.

Exact Financial Capacity Requirement
You must show proof of funds for 12 months of living costs. As of current regulations, this amount is AUD $29,710 for the primary student. If bringing family, you must show an additional AUD $10,394 for a spouse/partner, and AUD $4,449 for each dependent child.


Exact English Test Scores (March 2024 Update)
If not exempt, you must achieve the following minimum scores:
- IELTS: Minimum overall score of 6.0.
  - Package with ELICOS (English language training): Minimum score of 5.0 with 20 weeks of ELICOS, or 5.5 with 10 weeks of ELICOS.
  - Foundation or university preparation programs: Minimum score of 5.5.
- TOEFL iBT: Minimum overall score of 64 (Note: Home Edition is not accepted).
- PTE Academic: Minimum overall score of 50 (or 42 if packaged with ELICOS).

Course Level Changes (Condition 8202)
You must maintain enrolment in a registered course that is at the same level or higher than the registered course for which you were granted a visa. You cannot drop down to a lower Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) level course (e.g., from a Bachelor degree to a Diploma) without applying for and being granted a new Student visa, unless you are transferring from a doctoral degree (AQF 10) to a master's degree (AQF 9).

Post-Study Work Rights (Subclass 485 Temporary Graduate Visa - July 2024 Update)
Completing a CRICOS-registered degree of at least 2 academic years (minimum 92 weeks registered duration study completed in no less than 16 calendar months) in Australia makes you eligible for the Subclass 485 visa. Key rules:
- Maximum Age Limit: You must be 35 years of age or under at the time you apply (down from the previous limit of 50). Hong Kong and British National Overseas (BNO) passport holders are exempt from this change and can apply up to age 50.
- Durations:
  - Bachelor degree (coursework): 2 years.
  - Masters degree (coursework): 2 years.
  - Masters degree (research) and Doctoral degree (PhD): 3 years.
  - Hong Kong and BNO passport holders: 5 years.
  - (Note: The automatic 2-year post-study work extensions for select degrees have been abolished).
- English Test Score & 1-Year Validity Trap: You must achieve a minimum overall score of IELTS 6.5 (with a minimum of 5.5 in each component, or PTE equivalent of 57). Crucially, the English test results must be dated within 1 year before the date you submit your visa application (previously 3 years). Applying with a test score that is older than 1 year is a common reason for automatic visa refusal.

-//-            CRITICAL EDGE CASES (APPENDED)           -//-

Medical Exams (Panel Physicians)
Health checks cannot be done by a standard family doctor. They must be conducted by an officially approved "Panel Physician" authorized by the Australian Government, and typically include a chest x-ray (to screen for Tuberculosis) and a general medical examination.

Biometrics Collection
Depending on the applicant's home country, they may receive a request to provide biometrics (fingerprints and a digital photograph) at an official Australian Visa Application Centre (AVAC) or Australian Biometrics Collection Centre (ABCC). This usually must be done within 14 days of the request.

The "Pre-Course" Work Ban
While students have work rights of 48 hours a fortnight, they are strictly forbidden from working before their course officially commences. If a student arrives in Australia before their course start date, they cannot begin working until the course has officially started.

Spouse/Partner Work Rights Loophole
Generally, a dependent spouse or partner is also subject to the 48-hour per fortnight work limitation. However, if the primary student is studying a Master's degree or a Doctoral degree (PhD), their dependent partner is granted unlimited work rights.

No Further Stay (Condition 8503) Onshore Block
In some cases, the Department of Home Affairs attaches Condition 8503 ("No Further Stay") to a student visa. This is particularly common for high-risk passport holders, short course packages, or applicants who are suspected of not being genuine students.
- Why it matters: If Condition 8503 is on your visa, you cannot apply for any other substantive visa (including a subclass 485 Temporary Graduate visa or a new student visa extension) while you are onshore in Australia. You must depart the country and apply from offshore.
- Waivers: You can request a waiver of this condition ONLY if there has been a major, compassionate, and compelling change in your circumstances that was beyond your control (e.g. serious medical condition, natural disaster). Standard reasons like "needing more time to study" or "applying for a graduate visa" do not qualify for a waiver. Always check your visa grant letter for Condition 8503.
